Although this is intended to ultimately become a collection of small portfolio
apps, presently there is only one simple piece that is presentable - if you'd like
to explore that, you can find a live version here:

https://dave-jordan.dev/giraffe-tools/word-tool

This is an emotional literacy building tool, borrowing word lists from the
Centre for Nonviolent Communication's website.

The purpose of the tool is to allow the easy browsing, selection from and
filtering of three word lists. The words are for Feelings of Met Needs, Feelings
of Unmet Needs and the Needs themselves.

Selecting a word for a feeling (either positive / met need or negative / unmet
need) toggles that button on or off, whereas with the third list of Needs,
selection toggles between a green 'met' state, a red 'unmet' state and back to
unselected.

The controls at the bottom of the page then allow these words to be filtered by
those that have been selected, then further by just positive or negative terms.

Also see dark mode button for a much more pleasing colour scheme.

The intended usage is to provide access to conscious labels for internal felt
experiences that are either difficult to identify and clarify or for which there
is presently only critical language available. The words are scanned and
selections are allowed to be made by intuitive bodily impulse - the user just
selects things that 'feel right'.

The word lists are chosen carefully to meet the following criteria:

- A 'feeling' refers to an internal quality of experience and does not disguise
  an evaluation or judgement. Certain words are identified as pseudo-feeling
  words (in the original NVC model) and are omitted from the lists because they
  may seem to weave judgement into the expression - for example, to say to somebody that I
  am feeling 'ignored', 'rejected', 'insulted', 'deceived' etc. is, according to
  the model, likely to be heard as an evaluation of that person's
  wrongness. This almost reflexively results in a weakening of the empathic
  connection and the quality of relationship between two people, and ultimately
  compromises their ability to meet their needs as individuals and as a
  collaborative group. Instead, the lists provide practice with language that
  excludes this evaluative quality and focuses more on relatable and purely
  internal sensations.

- Similarly, a 'need' refers to an internal state, considered separately from
  methods of meeting that need (known as 'strategies'). Needs are considered to
  be universal to all humans. A person needs food, but a sandwich is only a
  strategy for meeting that need. To only describe one's needs to another in
  terms of strategies invites debate. The necessity of a
  strategy can be easily disputed, while the necessity of an internal state such
  as the need for food (or security, acceptance, space, choice, etc) is a
  condition that the individual is always the authority on (nobody can tell a
  person that they don't need freedom, or purpose, or companionship, and expect
  to be taken seriously).

The tool exists to practice employing alternative language to describe one's
felt experience to another (and to oneself - becoming liberated from
self-judgement is also a goal), where that language eschews critical /
judgemental / disputable expression for relatable, universal and
non-controversial language.

At the end of the day, the goal is to strengthen relationships and promote the
meeting of needs - it may well be that to use language such as this may
interfere with a relationship more than it supports it (certainly this is a
hazard in the early stages of learning). In such a situation, the original NVC
model advises to abandon the newer language in favour of the familiar - the goal
is to use whatever language connects you best, and sometimes that's the language
you are most familiar with. There are no rights or wrongs here, just options and
alternative strategies to consider.
